(1) A worker who has sustained a compensable injury shall be reinstated by the worker’s employer to the worker’s former position of employment upon demand for such reinstatement, if the position exists and is available and the worker is not disabled from performing the duties of such position. A worker’s former position is available even if that position has been filled by a replacement while the injured worker was absent. If the former position is not available, the worker shall be reinstated in any other existing position that is vacant and suitable. A certificate by the attending physician, as defined in ORS 656.005 (12), that the attending physician approves the worker’s return to the worker’s regular employment or other suitable employment shall be prima facie evidence that the worker is able to perform such duties. (2) Such right of reemployment shall be subject to the provisions for seniority rights and other employment restrictions contained in a valid collective bargaining agreement between the employer and a representative of the employer’s employees. (3) Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this section: (a) The right to reinstatement to the worker’s former position under this section terminates when whichever of the following events first occurs: (A) The worker cannot return to the former position of employment according to: (i) The medical determination of the attending physician; or (ii) Upon appeal of the attending physician’s determination, the determination of a medical arbiter or panel of medical arbiters pursuant to ORS chapter 656. (B) The worker is eligible and participates in vocational assistance under ORS 656.340. (C) The worker accepts suitable employment with another employer after becoming medically stationary. (D) The worker refuses a bona fide offer from the employer of light duty or modified employment that is suitable prior to becoming medically stationary. (E) Seven days elapse from the date that the worker is notified by the insurer or self-insured employer by certified mail that the worker’s attending physician has released the worker for employment unless the worker requests reinstatement within that time period. (F) Three years elapse from the date of injury. (b) The right to reinstatement under this section does not apply to: (A) A worker hired on a temporary basis as a replacement for an injured worker. (B) A seasonal worker employed to perform less than six months’ work in a calendar year. (C) A worker whose employment at the time of injury resulted from referral from a hiring hall operating pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement. (D) A worker whose employer employs 20 or fewer workers at the time of the worker’s injury and at the time of the worker’s demand for reinstatement. (4) Notwithstanding ORS 659A.165, a worker who refuses an offer of employment under subsection (3)(a)(D) of this section and who otherwise is entitled to family leave under ORS 659A.150 to 659A.186: (a) Automatically commences a period of family leave under ORS 659A.150 to 659A.186 upon refusing the offer of employment; and (b) Need not give additional written or oral notice to the employer that the employee is commencing a period of family leave. (5) Any violation of this section is an unlawful employment practice.
